# Python scripts for processing USPTO inventor and patent data

The following collection of scripts performs pre- and
post-processing on patent data as part of the patent
inventor disambiguation process.


Join the [Google discussion
group](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!forum/disambiguation),
let us know how you're using the code.

Follow development, subscribe to
[RSS
feed](https://github.com/funginstitute/patentprocessor/commits/master.atom).

## Processing patents

There are two ways to get started:

* Run `preprocess.sh <path-to-config-file> <number-of-threads>`

  See `process.cfg` for an example of a configuration file. The options in the
  `[process]` section will be used to determine which data is parsed, which
  steps are run, and where the data will be located after the process finishes.
  This process requires [`IPython`](http://ipython.org/install.html) to be
  installed.

* run `parse.py` directly to customize which directories are processed and
  which regex is used to process the files. Run `parse.py -h` to see the
  relevant command-line options. Follow with `clean.py` then
  `consolidate.py` to obtain a full set of tables.

To run the `clean.py` script, the
[NBER](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/fidownloads/NBER_asg) and
[location](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/fidownloads/loctbl)
tables must exist in the patentprocessor directory.

See "Configuring the Preprocessing Environment" below.

## Configuring the Preprocessing Environment

The python-based preprocessor is tested on Ubuntu 12.04 and MacOSX 10.6.
Any flavor of unixen with the following installed should work:

* Python 2.7.3
* scipy package for Python
* sqlite3 --> Note: you need version 3.7.15.1 or higher
* IPython
* pyzmq
* python-Levenshtein
* python-mysqldb
* More? Please [file an
  issue](https://github.com/funginstitute/patentprocessor/issues) if you find another dependency.

For Ubuntu, apt-get install the following packages

```
sudo apt-get install -y python-Levenshtein
sudo apt-get install -y python-mysqldb
sudo apt-get install -y python-pip
sudo apt-get install -y python-pyzmq
sudo pip install -r requirements.txt
```

In order to properly configure the preprocessing environment, the end user must
manually perform the following:

* Download the relevant XML files which need to be processed. These can be
  placed in any directory, but `parse.py` assumes the current directory `.`.
  So far, the parser assumes the USPTO Red Book 2004 format for Patent XML
  files, which can be found going back to 2005
  [here](http://www.google.com/googlebooks/uspto-patents-grants-text.html).

* Set the PATENTROOT environment variable (assuming a UNIX environment). This
  can be customized later using command line options, but for the purposes of
  running unit tests, it is necessary to actually export the environment
  variable, e.g.

  `export PATENTROOT = /path/to/xml/files`

* You *do not* need to have the `.sqlite3` files already in the project root
  directory, as they will be automatically generated by `parse.py`.


## Finding Specific Patents

Currently there's no automated way to find the location of this patent, but
what has worked well in the past is taking the patent number (for example
6106074) and appending it to the end of `google.com/patents/`. If it's a
regular patent, prepend "US" to the number. If it's a design patent, prepend
"USD" to the number. For example, the above patent can be found at
`http://www.google.com/patents/US6106074`.  Once on that page, you can see when
it was issued (22 Aug 2000 in this case) and then look for the corresponding
week here:
[http://www.google.com/googlebooks/uspto-patents-grants-text.html#2000](http://www.google.com/googlebooks/uspto-patents-grants-text.html#2000).
Sometimes you can also find the issue date on the USPTO page, but it's not
always obvious.

The format of the filename has only been ipgxxxxxx.zip since 2005, so if you
want anything before then, do the above process. Anything after that, try using
the `util/getpatent.py` script in the patentprocessor repository. Usage is `python
getpatent.py <patent number>`


## Contributing to the Patent Processor Project

Contributions are welcome, for source code development, testing
(including validation and verification), uses cases, etc. We're
targeting general PEP-compliance, so even an issue noting where we could
do better is appreciated.

### Contributing code

Pull requests are especially welcome. Here are a few pointers which will make everything easier:

* Small, tightly constrained commits.
* New files should be in their own commit, and committed before they are used in subsequent commits.
* Commits should tell a story in a logical sequence. It should be possible to understand the gist
  of the development just from reading the commits (hard, but worthwhile goal).
* The ideal commit:
    * Unit (or similar) test for a single functionality.
    * Implementation to pass the unit test.
    * Documentation (the "why") of the function/method in the appropriate location (platform dependent).
    * 0 or 1 use of the new functionality in production.
    * Further uses of functionality should go in future commits.
* Formatting updates, code cleanup and renaming should go into independent commits.
* Submit only code which is covered by *working* unit tests.
* Testing scripts, including unit tests, integration tests and functional tests go in the `test` directory.
* Code which does work goes in the lib directory.
* Code which provides a workflow (i.e., processing patents or building necessary
  infrastructure) goes in the top level directory. In the future, much of this code may
  be put into a `bin` directory.
* Test code should follow the pattern `test/test_libfile.py`. This pattern may change in
  the future, whence this documentation will change at that time.

**You must rebase before issuing a pull request: `git pull --rebase <upstream> master`**.

### Coding style

Start with [PEP8](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/). A very
large number of extremely intelligent software engineers working at the
wealthiest corporations on the planet have more or less agreed on a
standard set of conventions allowing J. Random Coder (that's you and I)
to read and write Python like the Big Boys and Girls (PyLadies!).
It *highly* unlikely we can improve on these guidelines.

That said, rules are rules and exists to broken once in a while.
So, optimize for readability.  Specifically:

* Use vowels, not secret shorthand 1337 cmptr cd fr nmng vrbls.
* Line length to 80 characters, no more.

### Running Tests

Before committing changes or submitting a pull request, please make sure that the code passes
all of our tests. There are two sets of tests:

* Integration tests: these test the end-to-end status of the preprocessor. From
  within the `integration/` directory, run the script
  `run_integration_tests.sh`. If you do not see any diff output, then the test
  has passed.
* Unit tests: these test individual components of the preprocessor. From within
  the `test/` directory, run the script `patenttest.sh`. The output will let
  you know if any tests have failed.

### Configuring for testing

Currently, testing requires having the environment configured as above,
and having some of the processing results. That is, testing the
"cleaning" phase requires having files from the parse phase.

This is sub-optimal for testing.

In the future, the small test xml file in the fixtures directory can be
used to construct mock data such that testing the cleaning phase can
proceed independently of any other phase.


## Disambiguating inventor names

Inventor disambiguation is performed using order restricted Bayesian
inference, [implemented in c++ and hosted on
github](https://github.com/funginstitute/disambiguator).
The application compiles and runs on both Ubuntu Linux 12.04 and
MacOS Snow Leopard (OSX 10.6). An external library for solving a
quadratic program is required, which is free for academic use.



## Postprocessing

After disambiguating, the resulting unique inventors are listed by number in an output file
(e.g., `final.txt`). This output file then processed to tie the inventor number to the
inventor name in the input database. The program which performs this linking is in the
`c++` disambiguation code. After the linking is done, verification proceeds.

### Verification

Verifying the results of the disambiguation is performed using the `benchmark.py` script,
which compares the linked results database with a (specially formatted) CSV file containing
a list of inventor-patent instances which have been verified by direct communication with
each inventor.

----

[Contributors](https://github.com/doolin/patentprocessor/graphs/contributors)


